# PDF-Analysis-Tool
Interactive PDF Analysis Tool using LangChain and Google Generative AI



**Overview
**This project demonstrates the use of LangChain and Google Generative AI models to interact with PDF documents. Specifically, it allows users to extract information from a PDF file and answer  queries.




This project harnesses the synergy of Python programming, Streamlit, PyPDF2, and LangChain integrated with Google Generative AI for advanced natural language processing (NLP). Focused on text mining and information retrieval, we utilize vector embeddings and FAISS for fast approximate nearest neighbors search, enhancing efficiency. API integration, managed through environment variables with dotenv, ensures secure access to Google API for seamless data extraction. Implementing text chunking, our project exemplifies version control in Git, facilitating collaborative development and precise management of code version




Files 
app.py: Python script to interact with PDF files using LangChain and Google Generative AI models.

requirements.txt: List of Python dependencies required to run the project.

.env: Configuration file to store environment variables, including API keys.

Visual_Studio_Errors_and_Warnings.pdf: Sample PDF file used for demonstrating the functionality of the project.

faiss_index: Index file generated by FAISS for vector storage.

Setup Instructions:

Download all the files in the attachment and create the venv
python -m venv myenv
myenv\Scripts\activate

Install Dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

Set Environment Variables:
Add your Google API key to the .env file:
GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_api_key_here

Run the Application:
Ensure pdf file is in the same directory.

Execute app.py:
python app.py




Execute app.py:
python app.py
The application will process the PDF file and answer the query.

